the first is partial stay archival
cap 62 and then in memory  sorbon
cap 62 and then in memory sorbon
state for cap 66 and no Tom I will never
stop using in Centric Linux distro cool
so I guess  before I get started guess
so I guess before I get started guess
a little bit of background  so
a little bit of background so
protocol 23  is kind of where the
protocol 23 is kind of where the
rubber is going to start hitting the
road  as far as state archival is
road as far as state archival is
concerned so  kind of some you know
concerned so kind of some you know
background to you when soron launched we
of course had the interface for state
archival with rent  and all those sort
archival with rent and all those sort
of stuff with the intention that
eventually entries that have run out of
rent will be archived and then removed
from validators  in order to free up
from validators in order to free up
space so you don't have you know the
issues  that come with large amounts
issues that come with large amounts
of state that have to be
maintained  and so  that's kind of
maintained and so that's kind of
where we're going now today  the
where we're going now today the
interface is such that you still pay
rent you still have to issue restores
and all the sort of things things  but
and all the sort of things things but
the data is not actually yet removed
from
validators  and so that's where we're
validators and so that's where we're
going so initially  the plan was for
going so initially the plan was for
protocol 23 was to have what we're
calling full State archival and in full
State archival what happens is
entries  once they have  run out of
entries once they have run out of
rent  be removed from the live State
rent be removed from the live State
and then they are added to this
temporary data store called the hot
archive  and the hot archive is still
archive and the hot archive is still
maintained by all validators but it's
just a separate database that just
maintains  entries that have been
maintains entries that have been
recently archived  the thinking being
recently archived the thinking being
was that eventually this hot archive
would become full and when the hot
archive is full what you would do is you
would create  a Merkle tree of that
would create a Merkle tree of that
data validators would maintain the
Merkel rout and then delete all the
information in the hot archive and then
you just repeat this process iteratively
so essentially you  evict entries from
so essentially you evict entries from
the live state to the hot archive state
eventually that hot archive cach will
become full and then you'll actually
delete and remove those entries from the
validator and then  the restoration
validator and then the restoration
process once an entry has been archived
in this way if it no longer lives in the
validator there's like a Merkel style
proving scheme  to which you are able
proving scheme to which you are able
to restore an entry back to the live ler
state so that's kind of what we consider
full state archival which is where
entries actually get deleted from
validators but  thinking about this
validators but thinking about this
problem a little bit more and looking at
the current metrics of soron  it seems
the current metrics of soron it seems
that we're still a little too early for
this full C archival I think long term
if you look at  smart contract
if you look at smart contract
platforms that have large amounts of
State there are significant issues with
maintaining all that state you have
lots of  you know Hardware
lots of you know Hardware
requirements on a network like salana to
maintain large amounts of cashes and
then  you have a networks like
then you have a networks like
ethereum that don't have large hard
requirements but they're very slow just
due to maintaining these very large
databases so long term at scale I think
it's still very important to have the
full State archival solution where
entries are deleted from validators and
then restored VI proving schemes  but
then restored VI proving schemes but
the reality of the situation is we're
not quite there yet and I think that
currently there is less than a gigabyte
of soron state currently live stellar
and so going through all these  hoops
and so going through all these hoops
and adding all this complexity  for
and adding all this complexity for
this proving scheme just to delete a
small amount of data isn't really
worthwhile at this point and so that's
why for protocol 23 instead of going the
full cival route where we actually
delete entries we are doing something
called or I'm proposing something called
partial SE archival and this is what cap
62  kind of explains and so in partial
62 kind of explains and so in partial
State archival what we do is we do kind
of the first half of the full state
archival so we still maintain  two
archival so we still maintain two
different databases on the validator you
have the live bucket list which contains
all of your live state which is the
The Ledger that exist today and then you
still have a  what's called the hot
still have a what's called the hot
archive which is a cache of recently
archived entries and so what you would
do is that whenever an entry runs out of
rent it would be evicted and removed
from the live State and added to this
hot archive database now the key
distinction here with partial stay
archival is even though you still remove
things from the live bucket list and add
them to to the hot archive you never
actually delete the hot archive  the
actually delete the hot archive the
hot archive never becomes full such that
the entries are never actually
removed from validators and so  it's
removed from validators and so it's
partial St archival because you are
still kind of storing live state in one
database and storing archive state in a
different database but you're not
actually removing any state from
validators and so I think my current
proposal would be in  protocol 23 to
proposal would be in protocol 23 to
implement the partial state archival
with the intention of later on in the
future extending this to the full State
archival solution  the only reason is
archival solution the only reason is
is that I
think that  for the  you can the the
think that for the you can the the
size at which the  the hot archive
size at which the the hot archive
becomes full and becomes deleted is
configurable and so I think  we could
configurable and so I think we could
do something reasonable such as we could
Implement on this St archival solution
but  we could set the the capacity of
but we could set the the capacity of
the hot archive to something very high
like 50 GB such that it would take a
long time and a lot of network activity
to actually start deleting State and
then you know if the network was to grow
that much such that we had 50 gigabytes
of archived  sorb on state then it
of archived sorb on state then it
would actually make more sense to start
deleting State and requiring proofs for
all the operational benefit that we get
there  and so that's kind of  the
there and so that's kind of the
current proposal of 62 is we're going to
still maintain all information on the
validators but we're just going to move
archived information from one database
to a different database  now the
to a different database now the
reason that we want to do this this
separation of archive State and  live
separation of archive State and live
state is that it actually opens up a
large number of optimizations and so
that's what we get into in cap 66 which
is  inmemory sorbon State and so  we
is inmemory sorbon State and so we
can because we have the system where the
live State  or the live bucket list
live State or the live bucket list
holds all classic information and all
live soron information and we have a
completely separate database that stores
all the archive State now because of the
rent system and because of the  the
rent system and because of the the
way that we do write fees you know where
a write fee is a function of the total
size of the bucket list we actually have
a way to put a soft limit on the amount
of live soron State at all times the
reason being is that you know with the
the current bucketless size if you
were to add enough life State such that
you go beyond the target bucka size
rights become very very expensive such
that the network  users are
that the network users are
incentivized to allow entries to run out
of rent and become archived and so
because of the way our fee system works
we have a way to essentially have a
soft limit on the amount of State in the
light bucket list at all times  and so
light bucket list at all times and so
what I'm proposing is to change that fee
slightly  such that instead of the
slightly such that instead of the
sorbon right fee  corresponding to the
sorbon right fee corresponding to the
size of the entire live leer of both
classic and sorbon entries it only
applies to the life soron entries and so
essentially the  the buckus target
essentially the the buckus target
size instead of being a buckus size
would change to just be the  the life
would change to just be the the life
soron  Target size and I think this is
soron Target size and I think this is
much more fair  given that classic
much more fair given that classic
entries don't actually have to pay rent
yet and so it's a little unfair that
adding classic entries actually changes
the WR fees and the rent fees for sorban
and especially as the network exists
today classic State dominates sorant
State size and so changes in sorant
usage don't actually really affect soron
right fees rather changes in classic
usage affect soron right fees and so by
changing the The Bucket List Target size
to a sorbon state instead of just all
total State  we have a much more fair
total State we have a much more fair
fee system but what that also allows us
to do is to prioritize live sorup on
state  above arive state so what do I
state above arive state so what do I
mean by that so if we change the  the
mean by that so if we change the the
way that we calculate fees to only look
at sbon size we can use the fee system
to enforce a maximum amount of Life
State at any time so for instance we
could set the target soron State size to
1 Gigabyte and then the fee system would
ensure that there's not much more than 1
gigabyte of Life Sor on state at a given
point now you could maybe you know go a
little bit above that if people are
willing to pay expensive fees
but the way that the fee growth works
is that  you know you are reasonably
is that you know you are reasonably
capped to a small amount of state and so
because we have the system where the
amount of live sorb on state at any
given time is fixed what we can actually
do is just store all sorbon state in
memory and not have disk access at all
and so that's the current proposal  in
and so that's the current proposal in
cap 66 is to prioritize all live
soron state in memory  and this is
soron state in memory and this is
made possible because we store live
soron state in one database and archived
state in a different database and so by
splitting the state into two separate
databases we can very easily just
iterate over the the live database and
store all that sorab on state in
memory and so that's kind of what's
Happening  behind the scenes  as to
Happening behind the scenes as to
what the  the validator is doing
what the the validator is doing
now we're able to do this because of the
maximum soron State size if we didn't
have this and if
sorban  LIF state was able to grow
sorban LIF state was able to grow
unboundedly this would be a very
dangerous optimization because
validators might run out of ram  but
validators might run out of ram but
because of the St kival system we can
actually fix the amount of Life State
and so there's no runaway R risk and so
we can  very reasonably store all
we can very reasonably store all
soron state in memory  and so there
soron state in memory and so there
are some changes we need to make to the
developer experience  and the user
developer experience and the user
experience to make this possible  so
experience to make this possible so
first we are going to to change  some
first we are going to to change some
of the resource types A little bit  So
of the resource types A little bit So
currently today we only have one read
resource which is read bites and read
entries  and this assumes that all the
entries and this assumes that all the
information you're reading is on disk
and so what we're going to do  or what
and so what we're going to do or what
cap 66 proposes is to split this into
two different resource types so they're
going to be an explicit inmemory read
resource and then an explicit  on disk
resource and then an explicit on disk
read resource now the reason we're doing
this is that even though all sorbon
state is or all life soron state is held
in memory sorbon contracts can still
access classic State and classic State
needs to be on disk now because classic
entries aren't subject to State archival
they have the runaway Ram  risk and so
they have the runaway Ram risk and so
we can't store classic entries in memory
and so  sorbon  contracts will still
and so sorbon contracts will still
have to pay disk fees for for classic
State that's exist additionally we're
only storing live state in memory and so
if you access archive state for example
a restore operation then you would still
have to do dis reads and so there's a
dis vew for that but essentially what
would be changed is that you would
there would be a network limit for the
maximum number of on disk read
entries as well as the maximum  number
entries as well as the maximum number
of inmemory read entries now that being
said because  the inmemory reads are a
said because the inmemory reads are a
lot cheaper than the on disk reads we
can actually pass aot that savings down
to the user so  in this proposal
to the user so in this proposal
there would actually be no in memory
read bites limit  so essentially the
read bites limit so essentially the
read limit for Life s on state would
just completely go away  because in
just completely go away because in
memory reads are cheap and so there's no
reason to limit that  now we would
reason to limit that now we would
still limit the total number of entries
being read but the bytes being read
would not be limited additionally
because we're not doing dis access
there would no longer be a read fee
associated with accessing Sor on State
and so  because you you still have to
and so because you you still have to
pay like a instruction  like CPU
pay like a instruction like CPU
count and things like that to actually
process large amounts of data but
because we're not going to disk there
doesn't need to be an explicit fee or
resource for that  and so essentially
resource for that and so essentially
for live SW on state you don't have
to pay for reads and you can read as
many bytes as you want  you still have
many bytes as you want you still have
to pay for the CPU though so it's still
an implicit fee but there's no explicit
read fee and so that's kind of  the
read fee and so that's kind of the
First Advantage to the inmemory versus
on disk resource now the second thing
this allows us to do  is is also
this allows us to do is is also
Implement autor restore functionality
and so  previously when we first
and so previously when we first
launched sorbon we weren't sure what the
final State archival proof system was
going to look like and so while from a
technological or from a technical
standpoint there was no reason to
require  a separate restore operation
require a separate restore operation
and a separate invoke host function
operation  we did that just to give us
operation we did that just to give us
flexibility later on in case the proof
system turned out to be very involved
but in cap 57 we've actually outlined a
pretty lightweight proof system that
works with invoke host function and so
what we're going to do  in cap 66 is
what we're going to do in cap 66 is
we're going to allow automatic restore
and so what this means is that you no
longer will have to  issue a restore
longer will have to issue a restore
operation prior to your invo host
function but actually your invo host
function operation will just
automatically restore any  archive
automatically restore any archive
keys that are in the footprint and so
this you know reduces the transaction
count required reduces fees and should
just offer a much better user experience
now the the way this works in resources
though is that like I mentioned before
the  live sorbon state is all cached
the live sorbon state is all cached
in memory in one database and archive
state is uncached and on dis in a
separate database and so if you call
info Coast function and every entry
you're using  is currently  live
you're using is currently live
then you would have the free inmemory
resource bites and you wouldn't have to
pay for dis that being said if you're
using automatic restore the entries
being restored would come out of the
disk read bytes and would be charged
disk fees because again for the the
entries that are archived and live in
the hot archive database those do have
to be read off a
disk  and so I think that's kind of a
disk and so I think that's kind of a
kind of at the high level of what
we're proposing kind of  you know the
we're proposing kind of you know the
tldr  except been talking for for a
tldr except been talking for for a
little bit is that  you know C the
little bit is that you know C the
archived entries live in their own
database and live sbond State lives in
the separate dat or a live database
we are then going to Cache  all the
we are then going to Cache all the
sbond state in the live database  in
sbond state in the live database in
order to pass that savings on to you
there will be an inmemory rebite limit
and an on disk  rebite limit in fee
and an on disk rebite limit in fee
and then  finally there will be
and then finally there will be
automatic restore  to  you know
automatic restore to you know
essentially  remove the need for the
essentially remove the need for the
restore operation in most
cases so I guess  are there there any
cases so I guess are there there any
questions or any  conversation points
questions or any conversation points
we'd like to touch on
more looks like  there's a question in
more looks like there's a question in
in the  this in the chat the chat box
in the this in the chat the chat box
but  I think a lot of daps and
but I think a lot of daps and
extend TTL by default will that still be
necessary
ah yeah so I think  so just because we
ah yeah so I think so just because we
have automatic restore doesn't mean that
you don't want to still manage your TTL
and so like I managed before if all the
entries  that you're using are
entries that you're using are
currently live then  what're or then
currently live then what're or then
you don't have to pay read fees  and
you don't have to pay read fees and
you have much larger  read
you have much larger read
limits and so  you are still
limits and so you are still
incentivized to pay rent  also so but
incentivized to pay rent also so but
the issue is when you restore when you
restore something you have to pay right
fees for the restoration and you also
have to pay discre fees for the
restoration and so I think from a
from a fees perspective if you're using
an entry a lot it's still in your best
interest to extend the TTL  to save
interest to extend the TTL to save
money  as you know even BEC just
money as you know even BEC just
because the restore is automatic do not
make mean it's free and so you still
have to pay  for that restore and even
have to pay for that restore and even
if it's the same invo Coast function an
invo Coast function  invoking a
invo Coast function invoking a
function that  only accesses live
function that only accesses live
state is significantly less expensive
than invoking a host function that has a
automatic restore on the front end of
that  so we still definitely want to
that so we still definitely want to
extent
TL
yeah  let's
yeah let's
see  oh so for orbit lens will it be
see oh so for orbit lens will it be
possible to tell in advance whether the
entry will be automatically restored
during the simulation  yes and so this
during the simulation yes and so this
is  kind of more of the implement
is kind of more of the implement
details which are included in the cap
but what we're doing is captive core has
recently added a couple of  HTTP n
recently added a couple of HTTP n
points for querying Ledger State  that
points for querying Ledger State that
will be used   by RPC in order to
will be used by RPC in order to
simulate transactions correctly and so
essentially this endpoint is a high
performance you know multi-thread HTTP
endpoint  that  has a similar
endpoint that has a similar
performance to a SQL  table queries
performance to a SQL table queries
and so it should be appropriate for for
production use cases and what this
endpoint will do is it's a key value
search where for every key you provide
it it will tell you  if that key
it it will tell you if that key
exists and then if it exists it'll give
you the value  and then it will also
you the value and then it will also
give you meta information about that key
and so it will give you the Ledger entry
it will tell you if it's live or
archived  and then it will also tell
archived and then it will also tell
you  you know what its current TTL
you you know what its current TTL
value is and if it's in memory or on
disk and so the captive core endpoint
is kind of Ed to be the new kind of
entry point for this information  and
entry point for this information and
so  you should be able to query the
so you should be able to query the
current archival state and the current
in memory versus on dis state of any
entry directly via captive core  again
entry directly via captive core again
there's also meta that we're emitting
for all these events so if you wanted to
it's theoretically possible to injust
meta and maintain the state of sorbon
entries that way  but if you don't
entries that way but if you don't
want to do that and create your own SQL
table and Pipeline and pipeline you can
just use the the captive core htpn
points  so will automatic restore
points so will automatic restore
become automatically available for
existing contracts  yes so the this is
existing contracts yes so the this is
all handled  at the RPC level and so
all handled at the RPC level and so
the essentially what's changing is that
with protocol 23  and this is detailed
with protocol 23 and this is detailed
in cap 66 specifically
is that we are changing the footprint to
have this field where you distinguish
in the footprint if a sorond key is
either in memory or on disk and so
essentially  what the validators will
essentially what the validators will
do is that for  whenever they receive
do is that for whenever they receive
and apply an info Coast function they
will look at the footprint and for every
sore Bond entry  that is marked as
sore Bond entry that is marked as
being on disk AKA marked as being Arch
before running that transaction
the validator will essentially restore
those entries automatically  and so
those entries automatically and so
the actual contract and the contract
logic will not change which means that
all deployed contracts are automatically
compatible with this  now the
compatible with this now the
invocations to those contracts will
change slightly because of the footprint
changes but again this will all be
handled by RPC and so pre-flight will
will do all this automatically
let's see other
questions oh so ler streaming mode
I'm I'm not sure about the context
but
behind  enabling or disallowing
behind enabling or disallowing
metast streams  on validators versus
metast streams on validators versus
captive core instances I imagine  it
captive core instances I imagine it
has to do with performance reasons where
you don't want ingestion to make a
validator fall out of sync  and
validator fall out of sync and
essentially that config setting is  an
essentially that config setting is an
opinionated way of saying that validator
should be high performance  and never
should be high performance and never
get blocked whereas like a watcher node
that's not participating in validation
would be more appropriate for
observing and adjusting the meta because
there's not  it doesn't depend on a
there's not it doesn't depend on a
downstream system where if the meta
stream gets clogged because the
downstream system isn't adjusting fast
enough you wouldn't want to  lose sync
enough you wouldn't want to lose sync
and have a validating node fall off the
network because of a  a downst stream
network because of a a downst stream
issue
cool so I guess
I'll from George about the cap mentioned
somewhere that autor restore won't
always be possible can you elaborate on
these scenarios ah yes okay  thank you
these scenarios ah yes okay thank you
for pointing this out  so there are a
for pointing this out so there are a
couple of edge
cases where  an invocation will still
cases where an invocation will still
require an explicit R operation
sorry  and so essentially
sorry and so essentially
because the inmemory reads are so
much cheaper  they don't have
much cheaper they don't have
limits  like the on desk read  the
limits like the on desk read the
on just do  while there there is no
on just do while there there is no
read byit limit at all  and while
read byit limit at all and while
there is an entry read limit the
expectation is that this limit will be
significantly higher than the dis limits
and so  just for  you know example
and so just for you know example
suppose that a  in protocol 23  the
suppose that a in protocol 23 the
transaction in memory read limit is 40
entries and the on disk read limit is 20
entries and so say you have like this
Dex  you know trade that will access
Dex you know trade that will access
40 soron entries now if all of those
entries are Al then  you know the
entries are Al then you know the
it's within the limits the invocation
Works no problem but say that all 40 of
those entries are archived now even
though the inmemory limits are large
enough for that transaction to succeed
you can only the the automatic
Restorations will come from the on disk
limits and so because you have to pay
disk fees and are subject to the dis
limits for the restore operation you can
only restore  in this example 20
only restore in this example 20
entries  automatically even though you
entries automatically even though you
need to  have authority to be live to
need to have authority to be live to
complete this Dex trate operation and so
in this scenario you would need to to
still  manually submit a restore
still manually submit a restore
operation  just because  the way
operation just because the way
that the limits are set you can't fit
that many restores in a single
transaction  now that being said
transaction now that being said
especially  given some other exciting
especially given some other exciting
work that's happening in 23  we expect
work that's happening in 23 we expect
to raise limits pretty significantly
across the board and so I suspect that
this Edge case will not affect most
transactions it will only affect  very
transactions it will only affect very
expensive transactions that are doing
stuff and so for instance  if you have
stuff and so for instance if you have
a DEX trade and it's trading  assets
a DEX trade and it's trading assets
that are mostly live you won't be
affected really you're only going to be
affected  if you have like a DEX trade
affected if you have like a DEX trade
that's crossing a ton of orders and for
some reason all those orders were
archived so you mentioned that  the
archived so you mentioned that the
restore op could be deprecated
because of the automatic restore but
this Ed Case requires you to keep
something something like that around
right yeah so I think  I I mentioned
right yeah so I think I I mentioned
the cap that we met deprecate the
restore op  and that's just because
restore op and that's just because
that if the footprint is automatically
restored  then having both the restore
restored then having both the restore
op and the extend TTL op is kind of
redundant  because for instance  say
redundant because for instance say
that you just want to restore something
you don't actually need two  operation
you don't actually need two operation
types you could just essentially use the
extend TTL put all the keys you want to
restore in the footprint and then just
set the TTL extension to zero and this
is functionally equivalent to the
restore up and so when I  mentioned
restore up and so when I mentioned
deprecating the restore op I don't mean
deprecating the ability to restore
transaction or to restore entries via an
explicit transaction but just mean like
you know mechanically do we need both
the restore op and the extend TTL op
where the extend TTL up could now  you
where the extend TTL up could now you
know in theory at least both do a
restoration as well as
extend okay yeah that makes sense Nico
had a question about how the sorbon
state size is initialized at upgrade
time it's it's not specified in the cap
yeah I I think I need to expand on this
a little bit more  so I think  part
a little bit more so I think part
of this cap is that we are changing
the semantic meaning of a network config
setting  so so in particular The
setting so so in particular The
Bucket List Target size will become the
sorbon state size now the issue is
currently the bucket list is like 11 or
12 gigabytes and so we  all of our
12 gigabytes and so we all of our
network settings are assuming  that
network settings are assuming that
the your target size is like 13 gigs
but now the issue is  if we you know
but now the issue is if we you know
do a protocol upgrade  protocol
do a protocol upgrade protocol
upgrades previously have never actually
changed config settings and so if you
just do the protocol upgrade all of a
sudden  instead of your Baseline
sudden instead of your Baseline
for fees being 12 gigs with a target for
13 gigs because we're only tracking
sorbon State your target is still 13
gigs but now your Baseline is like 400
megabytes  because there's like a lot
megabytes because there's like a lot
less soron State compared to life State
and then you have this dos attack where
until you upgrade the network confix
settings you essentially have no read or
write fees  for both  in memory and
write fees for both in memory and
on dis State and so you could have like
a Doss attack where someone writes like
tons and tons and tons of temp entries
and like you know spams The Ledger for
essentially zero fees  and so I think
essentially zero fees and so I think
what I'm proposing is that you know
currently there's like an operational
lag between upgrades because core
validators can only cue  one upgrade
validators can only cue one upgrade
at a time and so we'd have to get all of
tier one to arm for the protocol 23
upgrade and then after that goes through
have them all arm for the network config
setting upgrade and in between that time
you have free free reads and free wrs
which is a huge security risk and so
what I'm proposing is that because
protocol 23 is semantically changing
what this config setting means the
protocol upgrade itself should also
change the value and so you know this is
slightly different implementation wise
than what we've done previously but I
think it should be relatively
straightforward implementation
whereas like the protocol 23 upgrade
both semantically changes what the Buist
Target size means as well as it resets
it to a initial starting value that's
more reasonable  given this new
more reasonable given this new
interpretation of the data
Okay so we've actually  updated
Okay so we've actually updated
settings on protocol upgrades before
that I think we we know that works cool
okay great  let's see a couple other
okay great let's see a couple other
[Music]
questions okay so for orbit lens  the
questions okay so for orbit lens the
storage for the hot archive  yes so
storage for the hot archive yes so
the hot archive and the live Buck list
are both part of ensus  so we need the
are both part of ensus so we need the
hash of that state and so for that
reason  both of the the live database
reason both of the the live database
and the hot archive database are both
bucket list DB
implementations  and that's just
implementations and that's just
because they we have to meriz those
structures then Buck list DB is pretty
fast these days  now  with respect
fast these days now with respect
to offering tables to buckless DB  we
to offering tables to buckless DB we
we don't really have any plans to do
that  and the reason is it's a very
that and the reason is it's a very
difficult structure to add tables to
so it's a it's a log structured merge
tree  which is kind of a a variant of
tree which is kind of a a variant of
like database used by like rock CB or
level DB  and it's also completely
level DB and it's also completely
made inhouse like we didn't Fork levels
we didn't Fork rocks or anything like
that  and so kind of  we we have it
that and so kind of we we have it
it works very well for  query types
it works very well for query types
that the valers require and it's very
efficient at those but we have to
essentially like hand write C++
optimized code for those specific
queries and and so it would be both a
very significant undertaking to allow
like you know arbitrary index types
for Downstream  and it would also
for Downstream and it would also
probably not be a very efficient
database just because it's a lock
structured merge treat and so a SQL
style  index query would not work very
style index query would not work very
well on it and so I think what I'd like
to do with this is  you know we've
to do with this is you know we've
we've  for arbitrary key value lookups
we've for arbitrary key value lookups
we have exposed  end points that are
we have exposed end points that are
on the same scale as SQL queres but
again they're just raw key value stores
they're not like you know indexes or you
know really tables  and I think
know really tables and I think
there's been a lot of work done  by
there's been a lot of work done by
the platform folks on like the  the
the platform folks on like the the
CDP  and things like that and so I
CDP and things like that and so I
think  given that the complexity of
think given that the complexity of
the database of  Stellar core is
the database of Stellar core is
increasing a lot  and for a variety of
increasing a lot and for a variety of
reasons we  only support Buist DB now
reasons we only support Buist DB now
and no longer support SQL  I think
and no longer support SQL I think
that  any sort of  raw database
that any sort of raw database
access needs to move more in the
direction of utilizing Downstream
utilizing met ingestion using CDP and
not rely on direct access to course
databases just because you know nowadays
with buck DB the core database is very
specialized and is not suitable for
generic queries
cool I
think there's a couple people typing so
I'll let them finish or if anyone else
has any other questions if not I have a
third cap that I'd like to introduce
I'll give it a second and then we can
move
on all right I feel like that's we've
had enough time oh  answer about
had enough time oh answer about
slp1
dial would you mind linking that
question again I'm not quite sure what
the slp1 question is
oh yeah the new limits sorry
yeah cool  so I guess  now I'd like
yeah cool so I guess now I'd like
to  move on to cap 65 the reusable
to move on to cap 65 the reusable
module cache and so  like I mentioned
module cache and so like I mentioned
before we were doing all this
optimization stuff  for a memory State
optimization stuff for a memory State
and essentially  in addition to
and essentially in addition to
saving all the contract data in memory
we can also save all the contract
code  and by extension all the
code and by extension all the
contract modules in memory  because
contract modules in memory because
you know we have a way of EX of
archiving  contract instances and
archiving contract instances and
contract code that  hasn't paid rep
contract code that hasn't paid rep
recently and so  with that I think
recently and so with that I think
gr's on the call if you want come up and
talk about cap 65
I don't think  gr's on the call I I
I don't think gr's on the call I I
believe we were going to speak about CFE
65 next week right oh sorry I guess I
got a I gave youall a little teaser for
next week then my apologies got a
littlee of the gun but so yeah so
I I don't want to steal grain thunder
so I'll just you know leave you with a
teaser that we can you know have lots of
this not only helps optimize the the
read limits but also optimize CPU
utilization as well but we'll talk about
that more later
all right  unless there are any other
all right unless there are any other
questions
we can conclude this
meeting thanks great  Garen it was a
meeting thanks great Garen it was a
great
talk all right thank you and you know
the dis  if youall have any more
the dis if youall have any more
questions or concerns you know there's a
couple of discussion tabs on the Caps or
just ping me on Discord